ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
PROJECT REPORT
METHODS FOR PROJECT:
1: KNN (K-Nearest Neighbors)
The k-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm is a simple, supervised machine learning algorithm that can be used to solve both classification and regression problems. It's easy to implement and understand, but has a major drawback of becoming significantly slows as the size of that data in use grows.KNN algorithms decide a number k which is the nearest Neighbor to that data point that is to be classified. If the value of k is 5 it will look for 5 nearest Neighbors to that data point. In this example, if we assume k=4. KNN finds out about the 4 nearest Neighbors.KNN is a non-parametric, lazy learning algorithm. Its purpose is to use a database in which the data points are separated into several classes to predict the classification of a new sample point.
2: SVM (Support Vector Machine)
Support vector machines (SVMs) are a set of supervised learning methods used for classification, regression and outlier’s detection. The advantages of support vector machines are: Effective in high dimensional spaces. Still effective in cases where number of dimensions is greater than the number of samples.It uses a technique called the kernel trick to transform your data and then based on these transformations it finds an optimal boundary between the possible outputs.prediction of continuous values based on observations from the data. SVM is commonly used for classification (assigning a discrete class) and sometimes used for clustering (separate data points to some homogeneous classes).

3: Linear Classifier’s
In the field of machine learning, the goal of statistical classification is to use an object's characteristics to identify which class (or group) it belongs to. A linear classifier achieves this by making a classification decision based on the value of a linear combination of the characteristics. Linear classifiers classify data into labels based on a linear combination of input features. Therefore, these classifiers separate data using a line or plane or a hyperplane (a plane in more than 2 dimensions). They can only be used to classify data that is linearly separable.
